4.4.2 Bootstrap Loader Mode 2 - CAN Boot via CAN Pins
The CAN boot mode of the bootstrap loader provides a mechanism to load program
code/data via the MultiCAN module into the SPRAM, and start executing the loaded
code from address D400 0000H (address of the first transmitted byte). A single data
frame always transmits eight code/data bytes from the external host to the TC1796. The
number of data frames to be received in CAN boot mode is programmable and depends
on the required amount of code/data to be transmitted. The 16-bit data message count
value DMSGC determines the number of code/data bytes to be transmitted as
8 × MSGC with MSGC = 1 to 216. Therefore, the 48 Kbyte SPRAM of the TC1796 can
be loaded completely during CAN boot mode.
The communication between TC1796 and external host is based on the following three
CAN standard frames:
• Initialization frame - sent by the external host to the TC1796
• Acknowledge frame - sent by the TC1796 to the external host
• Data frame(s) - sent by the external host to the TC1796
The initialization frame is used in the TC1796 for baud rate detection. After a successful
baud rate detection is reported to the external host by the acknowledge frame, data is
transmitted by data frames. Table 4-6 shows the parameters and settings of the three
CAN standard frames used for CAN bootstrap loader.
Table 4-6 CAN Bootstrap Loader Frames
Frame Type Parameter Description
Initialization 
Frame

Identifier 11-bit, don’t care
DLC = 8 Data length code, 8 bytes transmitted within CAN frame
Data byte 0 55H
Data byte 1 55H
Data byte 2 Acknowledge message identifier ACKID, low byte
Data byte 3 Acknowledge message identifier ACKID, high byte
Data byte 4 Data message count DMSGC, low byte
Data byte 5 Data message count DMSGC, high byte
Data byte 6 Data message identifier DMSGID, low byte
Data byte 7 Data message identifier DMSGID, high byte


TC1796
System Units (Vol. 1 of 2)
 Reset and Boot Operation

User’s Manual 4-25 V2.0, 2007-07
Reset, V2.0 

Initialization Phase
As in the ASC boot mode, as first task the CAN bootstrap loader has to determine the
CAN baud rate at which the external host is communicating. This task requires the
external host to send initialization frames continuously to the TC1796. The first two data
bytes of the initialization frame include a 2-byte 5555H baud rate detection pattern, an
11-bit (2-byte) identifier ACKID1) for the acknowledge frame, a 16-bit data message
count value DMSGC, and an 11-bit (2-byte) identifier DMSGID1) to be used by the data
frame.
When CAN boot mode is entered, the CAN bootstrap loader program starts measuring
signal pulses at the RXDCAN0 input. After reception and pulse measurements of a
5555H bit pattern (data bytes 0 and 1 of the initialization frame), the CAN bootstrap loader
program calculates the CAN baud rate and programs the baud rate registers of the
MultiCAN module. The TC1796 is now ready to receive CAN frames with the baud rate
of the external host.
Acknowledge Phase
In the acknowledge phase, the bootstrap loader waits until it receives the next correctly
recognized initialization frame from the external host, and acknowledges this frame by
generating a dominant bit in its ACK slot. Afterwards, the bootstrap loader transmits an
acknowledge frame back to the external host indicating that it is now ready to receive

Acknowledge 
Frame

Identifier Acknowledge message identifier ACKID as received by 
data bytes [3:2] of the initialization frame
DLC = 4 Data length code, 4 bytes transmitted within CAN frame
Data bytes
0/1

Contents of bit-timing register

Data bytes
2/3

Copy of acknowledge identifier from initialization frame

Data frame Identifier Data message identifier DMSGID as sent by data bytes 
[7:6] of the initialization frame
DLC = 8 Data length code, 8 bytes transmitted within CAN frame
Data bytes
0 to 7

Data bytes, assigned to increasing destination (SPRAM) 
addresses




----------------------



APP NOTE

A “0” means a low-level voltage is applied at the pin.
After entering Bootstrap Loader mode, the device switches the clock system from initial
PLL Freerunning Mode (VCO base frequency) to Prescaler Mode with a frequency
divider of 1. Hence the system frequency becomes equal to the frequency of an external
crystal which must be obligatorily connected between XTAL1/XTAL2 pins, if a Bootstrap
Loader mode is selected upon power-on. The crystal frequency must be at least 10
MHz.
Further on, the HOST sends the Initialization CAN Frame to the device. The CAN-Bus
baud rate used by the HOST is automatically detected based on this frame.
Data Message Count DMSGC specifies the number of CAN Data Frames sent
subsequently to the device.
Data Message Identifier DMSGID specifies the identifier that all subsequent CAN Data
Frames must carry. The identifier will be internally stored in the device and every
incoming CAN Data Frame will be checked for the same identifier. Only 11 bit out of the
16 bit are stored internally as identifier:
The upper 3 bits of the 16-bit-word will be disregarded and the remaining word will
be right-shifted by 2. This yields the 11-bit-identifier.